# 1. Tutorial
Create a new Bash script file with the .sh extension using your favorite text editor. Let's call this script mymodule.sh. Using nano, vim or vs code to do it

```
nano mymodule.sh
```
Start the script with a shebang line that tells the system to use the Bash interpreter:

```
#!/bin/bash
```

Define your module's function or functions in the script. For example, let's define a function called greet that takes one argument and prints a greeting message to the console:
```
greet() {
    echo "Hello, $1!"
}
```

Save the script and exit the text editor.

Final version
```
#!/bin/bash
greet() {
    echo "Hello, $1!"
}
```

Make the script executable by running the following command:

```
chmod +x mymodule.sh
```

This command grants execute permission to the script.

Now, you can run your script as a module with arguments by running the script with arguments:

```
./mymodule.sh John
```

This will execute the greet function and print a greeting to John.

If you want to use your script as a module from anywhere in the terminal, you can add an alias to your bashrc profile. Open your bashrc profile file using your favorite text editor:
```
nano ~/.bashrc
```

Add the following alias to the end of the file:
```
alias mymodule=". /path/to/mymodule.sh"
```
Replace /path/to/mymodule.sh with the full path to your script.

Save the file and exit the text editor.

Reload the bashrc profile by running the following command:
```
source ~/.bashrc
```
Now, you can run your module from anywhere in the terminal by typing:

```
mymodule John
```

This will execute the greet function and print a greeting to John.
That's it! With these steps, you can write a Bash script that can be run as a module with arguments and exported using the bashrc profile.

# 2. Practice with fastqc
Install fastqc
```
sudo apt-get install fastqc
```


Write simple modules, put them to the script with name fastqc_run.sh
```
#!/usr/bin/env bash
sample_id="$1"
reads="$2"

mkdir fastqc_${sample_id}_logs
fastqc -o fastqc_${sample_id}_logs -f fastq -q ${reads}
```

To run the module:
```
./fastqc_run.sh sampleA demo_R1.fastq.gz
```
*Note*: better with export to tools for common usage.
