# 1.Conda
Conda is a popular open-source package management system and environment management system that is commonly used in scientific computing and data science. With conda, you can create isolated environments that contain specific versions of packages and dependencies. This allows you to manage the dependencies of your software projects and ensure that you can reproduce your results. Conda makes it easy to install, manage, and update packages and libraries, and it works on Windows, macOS, and Linux. To create an isolated environment, you can use the conda create command, and to activate the environment, you can use the conda activate command.
Here is a tutorial for using conda to install and use the fastqc package:

## 1.1 Install Miniconda:
Miniconda is a minimal distribution of the Conda package manager. You can install Miniconda from the following website: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html

## 1.2 Create a conda environment:
```
conda create --name fastqc_env
```
This will create an isolated environment named "fastqc_env".

## 1.3 Activate the environment:
```
conda activate fastqc_env
```
This will activate the fastqc_env environment so that any packages installed will be installed within this environment.

## 1.4 Install fastqc package:

```
conda install -c bioconda fastqc
```
## 1.5 Verify the installation:
```
fastqc -v
```
This should display the version of the fastqc package installed in the environment.
```
fastqc <input_file.fastq>
```
This will generate the FastQC report for the input fastq file.

Now you can use the fastqc package within the isolated environment, and it will not affect the packages installed in your base environment.
## 1.6 Preproduce the environmnet
Export the environment to a YAML file by running the following command:

```
conda env export > environment.yml
```

Copy the environment.yml file to the new machine
```
conda env create -f environment.yml --prefix /path/to/new/prefix
```
Replace /path/to/new/prefix with the path where you want to create the new environment. This option --prefix allows to create environment in the specific directory path.

```
conda activate /path/to/new/prefix
```
This will activate the new environment and you should be able to use the same packages as the original environment.

That's it! With these steps, you should be able to reproduce the Conda environment on a new machine using a YAML file and prefix create option