# 1. Create user and group
To create a new user, use the adduser or useradd command. For example, to create a new user called jane, run:
```
sudo adduser jane
```
This will prompt you to set a password for the new user and fill in some additional information, such as their full name and contact information.

To create a new group, use the addgroup or groupadd command. For example, to create a new group called developers, run:
```
sudo addgroup developers
```
Note: Change add to delete to remove user and group

This will create a new group with the name developers.
```
sudo usermod -a -G groupname username
```
Replace groupname with the name of the group you want to add the user to, and username with the name of the user you want to add to the group.

Example
```
sudo usermod -a -G developers jane

```

# 2. Authentication
In Linux, authentication is managed through users, groups, and permissions. Each file and directory in the system has a set of permissions that determine who can access it and what actions they can perform.

Here's a brief introduction to users, groups, and others in Linux authentication with an example:

User: A user is an individual who can log in and interact with the system. Each user has a unique username and a password that they use to authenticate themselves. Each user also has a home directory where they can store their files and personal settings.
Example: jane is a user on the system. She logs in with her username jane and her password. Her home directory is /home/jane, and she can only access files and directories that she has permission to access.

Group: A group is a collection of users who share the same permissions on the system. Each user can be a member of multiple groups, and each group can have multiple users.
Example: developers is a group on the system. The users jane and john are both members of this group. Any file or directory that belongs to the developers group can be accessed by jane and john, as well as any other users who are members of the developers group.

Others: The "others" category refers to any user who is not the owner of a file or directory and who is not a member of the group that the file or directory belongs to.
Example: A file that is owned by jane and belongs to the developers group can be accessed by jane and any other members of the developers group. However, if the file has permissions set to allow "others" to access it, then any user who is not jane or a member of the developers group can also access the file.

In summary, users and groups are used to manage authentication and permissions on a Linux system. Each user has a unique username and password, and each user can belong to multiple groups. The permissions on files and directories determine who can access them, and the user, group, and others categories are used to determine which users have access.


Sure, here's an example of how to create a sample folder, change its mode, user, group, and other permissions:

Create a sample folder called myfolder using the mkdir command:
```
mkdir myfolder
```

Change the mode of the folder using the chmod command. In this example, we're setting the mode to rwxr-xr-x, which means the owner of the folder has read, write, and execute permissions, while group members and others only have read and execute permissions:
```
chmod 755 myfolder
```
Change the owner of the folder using the chown command. In this example, we're changing the owner to jane:
```
chown jane myfolder
```
Change the group of the folder using the chgrp command. In this example, we're changing the group to developers:

```
chgrp developers myfolder
```
Change the mode for the group using the chmod command. In this example, we're setting the group mode to rwxrwxr-x, which means both the owner and group members have read, write, and execute permissions, while others only have read and execute permissions:
```
chmod 775 myfolder
```
Finally, change the mode for others using the chmod command. In this example, we're setting the mode to rwxrwxr-x, which means both the owner, group members, and others have read, write, and execute permissions:

```
chmod 777 myfolder
```
Now, the myfolder folder has been created with different modes and permissions for the owner, group members, and others. These modes and permissions determine who can access the folder and what actions they can perform on the files within it.

